---
title: "Object Oriented Programming"
author: "SanWang"
date: "2021-10-08"
---

# Object Oriented Programming

## Definition

> A *programming paradigm* based on the concept "object", which can contain data and code: data in the form of *fields*(properties) and code in the form of *procedures*(methods).

## Object Oriented Programming Languages

Languages that support this paradigm.

## Properties

1. Encapsulation

   - A class does not allow calling code to access internal object data and permits access through methods only(**data hiding**).
   - syntax support: *access modifiers*(`private`, `protected`, `public`).

2. Abstraction
   - reveal members that are relevant for the use of other objects, hiding implementation code.
   - can't be instantiated into objects.
   - It's sometimes excluded for the reason that it did not need syntax to support indeed.
   - syntax support: `interface`, `abstract`.
      [Distinction between `interface` and `abstract`](./2.%20Interface%20and%20Abstract.md)

3. Inheritance
   - represents **'is-a-type-of'** relationship.
   - subclass can override the methods defined by superclass.
   - it's controversial, it sometimes considers an *anti-pattern*. -> *more composition and less inheritance*.

4. Polymorphism
   1. through inheritance:
      - can use subclass to replace superclass.
      - syntax support:
        1. inheritance.
        2. assign a subclass object to a superclass object variable.
        3. subclass methods can override superclass methods.
   2. through interface.
   3. duck-typing:
      - as long as the classes has methods with the same name, like phython and javascript(dynamic programming language).

## Comparison With Procedural Programming

### Procedural Programming

- a *programming paradigm* based on the concept of **procedure call** and **modular programming**.

### Advantages

   1. OOP is more suitable for large program.
   2. OOP is better at reusability, extensibility and maintainability.
   3. OOP is more readable and close to humans' mind.

### Some actions that Change OOP to Procedural Programming

   1. abuse of `getters` and `setters`: breaking encapsulations.
   2. abuse of global variables and global methods: `Constants` and `Utils` class.
         solutions:
        1. separate the class according their usages.
        2. just define the constants in the class where they were uses.
   3. **Anemic Domain Model**-use of software domain model where domain object contains little of no business logic: *MVC*. (considered as *anti-pattern*).
