# MySQL

## 1. Install and Configure MySQL on MacOS

**Aliases**: make is easier to access mysql

```sh
alias mysql=/usr/local/mysql/bin/mysql
alias mysqladmin=/usr/local/mysql/bin/mysqladmin
```

Event better, add it to the _PATH_ environment variable. Configure the shell startup file **~/.bash_profile**, which is only available from the current user.

> 1. `env` commond can list all the environment variables.
> 2. `$` is used to refence a variable, so `echo $PATH` commond can be used to print the value of `PATH`.
> 3. to set a global variable, use the commond `export varname=val`, and use ':'to seperate different vals.
> 4. after change of **~/.bash_profile**, you need to restart the system to make it available.

```sh
export PATH=$PATH:<PATH 1>:<PATH 2>:...:<PATH N>
```

---

But after I've tried, it seems that is not availble for the reason that the path is start from root '/', while the **~/.bash_profile** is under '~/'. So, let's place the path in the root level. I try to place it in _/etc/paths.d_.

> 1. create a file name _mysql_.
> 2. write the path in the file `/usr/local/mysql/bin/mysql`.
> 3. [reference1](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/setting-environment-variables.html); [refernce2](https://scriptingosx.com/2017/05/where-paths-come-from/).

## 2. Invoking MySQL Programs.

commond `mysql` followed by some options is uesed to invoke a client MySQL programm. Options commonly used including:

1. `-u root`/`--user=root` indicates the the user of database.
2. `-p`/`--password` indicates the password of the user.
3. `-h`/`--host` indicated the host of the database, default is `localhost`. If the host is `localhost`, on Unix, the clients connect using a _Unix socket file_(a file for process to exchange data).
4. `-P`/`--port` the port of the database.

A _schema_ in MySQL is phyisically a database that contains tables. Create a databse use following statement:

```SQL
CREATE SCHEMA your_db_name.
```

## 3. Problems occurs when using TypeORM connecting MySQL.

1. > 'Client does not support authentication protocol requested by server'.
   > solution: try change the password. [reference](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/51008807/nodejs-mysql-client-does-not-support-authentication-protocol).
   > reason: MySQL 8.0 uses caching_sha2_password as default authentication plugin rather than MySQL 5.7 default mysql_native_password, supported by most clients, which is why you need to explicitly allow that authentication for given user: ALTER USER 'user' IDENTIFIED WITH mysql_native_password BY 'password'
